RealWebWithNode/Summary.MD, before:

# Real Time Web With Node

## Level 1
- Node allows you to build scalable Netowrk Applications using Javascript on the server side.
- Node is a wrapper around the V8 Javascript Runtime.
- Node is all written in C.
- Types of servers you could build:
	1. Websocket server; chat server.
	2. File upload client.
	3. Ad server.
	4. Real time data apps.
- Node.js is not a web framework.
- Not really for beginners since it's so low level.
- It's not multi-threaded.
- Blocking is where execution stops while it waits for an original command to finish.
- Non-blocking is where a step is ignored until a *callback* is sent.
```js
var contents = fs.readFileSync('target/file', function( err, contents){
	// stuff to do.
})
// other stuff.
```
- Alternatively, we could define the function and parameters and pass that to the function call.
- You can tell node what you need using `var http = requires('http');`
- Worth knowing: `http.createServer( function( request, response){})` is how you start server in Node.js.
- Node uses what is called the *Event Loop* to continue checking for requests.
- Most other languages require blocks; this is, in Python, called the *Mutex Lock*.
- `readFileSync()` is blocking; `readFile()` is non-blocking.
- Issueing commands in node using `node`.
- `writeHead()` can do more than send the 200 code.
- `response.end()` can also return a string response.

## Level 2
- Focused on events this level.
- Types of events include click, submit and hover.
- Just like the DOM, many objects in Node emit events.
- This being the case, they almost certainly inherit from **EventEmitter**.
```js
var EventEmitter = require('events').EventEmitter;
var logger = new EventEmitter(); // error, warn, info events.

logger.on('error', function( message ){
	console.log('ERR: ' + message);
});

logger.emit('error', 'Spilled Milk');

// These next two lines are the same:
http.createServer( function( request, response){});

var server = http.createServer(); server.on('request', function( request, response){});
```

## Level 3
## Level 4
## Level 5
## Level 6
## Level 7

## Research:
- V8 Javascript Runtime
-

Commit message:

Finished Level 3
Node on the web.

RealWebWithNode/Summary.MD, after:

# Real Time Web With Node

## Level 1
- Node allows you to build scalable Netowrk Applications using Javascript on the server side.
- Node is a wrapper around the V8 Javascript Runtime.
- Node is all written in C.
- Types of servers you could build:
	1. Websocket server; chat server.
	2. File upload client.
	3. Ad server.
	4. Real time data apps.
- Node.js is not a web framework.
- Not really for beginners since it's so low level.
- It's not multi-threaded.
- Blocking is where execution stops while it waits for an original command to finish.
- Non-blocking is where a step is ignored until a *callback* is sent.
```js
var contents = fs.readFileSync('target/file', function( err, contents){
	// stuff to do.
})
// other stuff.
```
- Alternatively, we could define the function and parameters and pass that to the function call.
- You can tell node what you need using `var http = requires('http');`
- Worth knowing: `http.createServer( function( request, response){})` is how you start server in Node.js.
- Node uses what is called the *Event Loop* to continue checking for requests.
- Most other languages require blocks; this is, in Python, called the *Mutex Lock*.
- `readFileSync()` is blocking; `readFile()` is non-blocking.
- Issueing commands in node using `node`.
- `writeHead()` can do more than send the 200 code.
- `response.end()` can also return a string response.

## Level 2
- Focused on events this level.
- Types of events include click, submit and hover.
- Just like the DOM, many objects in Node emit events.
- This being the case, they almost certainly inherit from **EventEmitter**.
```js
var EventEmitter = require('events').EventEmitter;
var logger = new EventEmitter(); // error, warn, info events.

logger.on('error', function( message ){
	console.log('ERR: ' + message);
});

logger.emit('error', 'Spilled Milk');

// These next two lines are the same:
http.createServer( function( request, response){});

var server = http.createServer(); server.on('request', function( request, response){});
```

## Level 3
- Talking about streams this level.
- Streams allow us to process data as soon as it is received.
- Streams are like channels were data just flows through.
- There are two types:
	1. Readable.
	2. Writable.
- ReadableStream inherits from EventEmitter.
```js
request.on( 'reabale', function(){
	var chunk = null;
	while( null !== (chunk = request.read())){
		console.log(chunk.toString());
	}
});
request.on('end', function(){
	response.end();
});
```
- This block deals with each sent chunk of data piece by piece in non-blocking fashion.
- Node has a function called `request.pipe( //response )` that behaves like a pipe between two clients.
- To read files, you need `var fs = require('fs');`.
- Then, `var file = fs.createReadStream("readme.md");`.
- To write contents to a file, use `var newFile = fs.createWriteStream("readme_copy.md");`
- You can pipe any read stream into any write stream.
- You can access how large the file is supposed to be using `var fileBytes = request.headers['content-length'];
- Instead of all that low level code, you could just call `file.pipe( process.stdout);`.
- To force a pipe to remain open until an end is received, pass `{ end: false }` to `*.pipe()`.

## Level 4
## Level 5
## Level 6
## Level 7

## Research:
- V8 Javascript Runtime
- Gulp.js
-
