# Powering Up With React
## Sergio Cruz

# First Component
- *React* is a javascript library for building user interfaces.
- Some people use it as the **V** from MVC's.
- It was built to solve the problem of large applications wtih data that change over time.
- Created by Facebook.
- When solving problems, we always must be thinking with respect to the **Component-Based Architecture**.
- A **Component** is sort of like a function call for UI elements.
- The **Virtual DOM** is the in-memory representation of the real DOM generated by React before any changes are made.
- This allows React to make **Diffing** based on the changes to be made between states and speeds up response times.
- *Componenets* extend from the `React.Component` base class.
```js
class StoryBox extends React.Component{
  render(){
    return( <div>Storybox </div>);
  }

  ReactDOM.render(
    <StoryBox />, docuemnt.getElementById('story-app')
  );
}
```
- Every single component **MUST** have a `render()` function.
- **JSX** allows us to include html in our Javascript.
- Both the class name and the element name must match.
- In the HTML, we include `id='story-app'` in a div.
- Dependencies:
  * react.js
  * react-dom.js
  * babel.js
  * components.js
- You can shorthand the DOM part using `let target = document.getElementById('robot-app');` and then passing target.
- Lower case is treated as html and upper case is treated as Javascript.
- When building html blocks in React, you must use `className` instead of `class` since it's a reserved word.
- To have React interpret the expression as Javascript, you just need to wrap the expression in `{ }`.
- You can use `topicsList.map( topic => <li>{topic}</li>)`.

# Talk Through Props
- 


# Component State

# Sythentic Events

# Talking to Remote Servers
